#JBehave OGSi

JBehave OGSi was created to able to execute JBehave BDD like stories inside any OSGi environment. 
You can use it to test any kind of OSGi applications that requires to be executed inside an OSGi Container as an Eclipse RCP/SWT applications, OSGi Services, etc.
It can be used with:    
   - Tycho or Pax-Exam in a Maven building;
   - inside any IDE that provides a Junit OSGi environment as Eclipse PDE JUnit Plug-in Test;
   - Interactively inside any OSGi Container that uses Felix GoGo commands;

It is composed by these components: 

- jbehave-osgi-bundles/org.jbehave.osgi.core. A bundle that wraps the JBehave Core API and exposes its functionalities; This is a required bundle on all cases.

- jbehave-osgi-bundles/org.jbehave.osgi.paxexam. This is not a bundle but a jar containing some Pax-Exam integration utilities.

- jbehave-osgi-bundles/org.jbehave.osgi.logging. A bundle containing a simple implementation of the OSGi LogListener that prints outputs to console.

- jbehave-osgi-bundles/org.jbehave.osgi.web. A bundle that wraps the JBehave Web API plus Selenium and its non-OSGi dependencies. It should be used when you need to run test for web applications.

- jbehave-osgi-equinox, which supply Equinox p2 repository containing specific features.

* the minimum OSGI version needed is 4.3.

 
## Bulding JBehave for OSGi

The JBehave-OSGi components uses different approach to being built.
 
All projects inside jbehave-osgi-bundles are using _POM-first_ approach. This means that all information needed in the build is taken from the POM file and an OSGi manifest file is generated by the _maven-bundle-plugin_ that is based on the BND tool.

Equinox components are using a _MANIFEST-first_ approach. This mean that all information needed in the build is taken from a existent bundle manifest. So they need to be built using Eclipse Tycho.

Its not possible to run both methods together in the same Maven reactor (in the same running job), so the buildin must be done in two phases. First, all _POM-first_ projects than the _MANIFEST-first_ projects.


### Getting the source code

1) Clone the JBehave-OSGi git repository into your machine:

	git clone git://github.com/jbehave/jbehave-osgi.git


### Building _POM-first_ projects:
 
2) Go to the root folder where you have cloned the project:

	cd /yourprojects/jbehave-osgi

3) Start the maven profile named **bundles**

	mvn clean install -P bundles
	
    This will install the built bundles in your local maven repository.
    In order to run the integration tests you can use:

	mvn clean install -P bundles -Dpax.exam.framework=equinox-kepler (run tests inside an Equinox Kepler container)
  or

	mvn clean install -P bundles -Dpax.exam.framework=felix (run tests inside a Felix container)

	
### Building the _MANIFEST-first_ projects:

4) Go to root folder where you have cloned the project

	cd /yourprojects/jbehave-osgi

5) Start the maven profile named **distribution-equinox**: 

	mvn clean verify -P distribution-equinox -Djbehave.osgi.distr.equinox=Luna

This will create the p2 repository using the Luna repository inside the the folder /org.jbehave.osgi.equinox.p2/target/repository.

In order to use the Kepler main repository you must use this:

        mvn clean verify -P distribution-equinox -Djbehave.osgi.distr.equinox=kepler 

In case you need to copy the generated p2 folder to another place, you can use:

        mvn clean verify -P distribution-equinox -Djbehave.osgi.distr.equinox=Luna -Djbehave.distr.p2.location=/home/jbehave/p2

This will generate the P2 repository in the target folder and then will copy it to the /home/jbehave/p2 folder.
     
The generated P2 repository will contain all features containing all bundles dependencies needed for JBehave-OSGi to be executed on Equinox.



## Setup Eclipse Development Environment for the JBehave-OSGi

In order to work with the source code we recommend you to use the latest Eclipse with M2e plug-in (plus Tycho extension) installed.

After have started Eclipse:

1) Preferably, choose a new workspace with a proper name. eg: jbehave-osgi

2) Import the projects using the _Maven Import_ into the workspace. 
After the import, you should see compile errors due to missing dependencies. That is normal since you don't setup the target platform yet.

3) Setup the _Target Platform_ of the new workspace:

    - Go to /jbehave-osgi/jbehave-osgi-equinox/eclipse__targets folder and open the target file proper for your environment. eg: jbehave-osgi-kepler_local.target. 
      The eclipse will resolve its contents.
    - After Eclipse has been resolved the target definition file click in the _Set as Target Platform_ link. 
      Eclipse must resolve all compile errors.


  
## Working with the examples

We provided a series of OSGi projects to exemplify how you could use JBehave-OSGi. 

Each provided example has an Eclipse launcher file that will facilitate their execution.

1) Go to menu "Run", then "Run Configurations..."

2) Select one of the launcher that start with the 'Example-' word.
    


# JBehave-OSGi Interactive

JBehave-OSGi provides a way for you to execute your stories inside an OSGi container in an interactive way.

What interactive means? 

It means that after you have started your OSGi container and have installed the org.jbehave.osgi.core bundle then whenever you install and activate a bundle whose manifest file contains the _JBehave-StoryRunner_ and/or _JBehave-StepFactory_ headers then one or more _StoryRunnerService_ and _InjectableStepsFactoryService_  instances will be created depending on the values specified.
This way you can use the provided GoGo commands in the console to interact with those registered services.

  * In case of you are using Equinox you can install the org.jbehave.osgi.equinox.commands bundle that provides an auto-completion feature.

Take a look in the org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.itests project manifest:

    Manifest-Version: 1.0
    Bundle-ActivationPolicy: lazy
    Bundle-ManifestVersion: 2
    Bundle-Name: JBehave OSGi :: POM-First Trader Example : JBehave Story an
    d Steps Bundle
    Bundle-SymbolicName: org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.itests
    Bundle-Version: 1.0.0.SNAPSHOT
    Export-Package: org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.itests.convert
     ers;version="1.0.0.SNAPSHOT",org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.
     itests.embedders;uses:="org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.itest
     s.steps1,org.osgi.framework";version="1.0.0.SNAPSHOT",org.jbehave.osgi.
     examples.trader.pomfirst.itests.steps1;uses:="org.osgi.framework";versi
     on="1.0.0.SNAPSHOT",org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.itests.st
     eps2;version="1.0.0.SNAPSHOT",org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst
     .itests.stories;version="1.0.0.SNAPSHOT"
    Import-Package: org.apache.commons.lang;version="[2.6,3)",org.junit,org.
     osgi.framework;version="[1.6,2)",com.thoughtworks.paranamer
    JBehave-StepFactory: stepFactory1:org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfi
     rst.itests.steps1.*,stepFactory2:org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfi
     rst.itests.steps2.*
    JBehave-StoryRunner: org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.itests.em
     bedders.TraderAnnotatedPathRunnerOsgi,org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.
     pomfirst.itests.embedders.TraderAnnotatedPathRunnerOsgiWithStepFactoryS
     erviceFilter,org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.pomfirst.itests.embedders
     .TraderAnnotatedPathRunnerOsgiWithStepFactoryServiceFilter2
    Require-Bundle: org.jbehave.osgi.core;bundle-version="[1.0.0,2.0.0)",org
     .hamcrest.integration;bundle-version="1.3.0"


The header _JBehave-StoryRunner_ tells to JBehave-OSGi that it must create one StoryRunnerService instance for each specified class. 
Those classes have two requirements: They must be annotated with JBehave's *@Configure* and *@UsingPaths* annotations. The *@Embedder* is optional.

The header _JBehave-StepFactory_ tells to JBehave-OSGi that is must create one InjectableStepsFactoryService instance for every group of step classes specified. Each group must have one identifier and one or more step classes. 

We provided an Eclipse launcher to exemplify its use. Let's see how to use it.


### Running the test examples using JBehave-OSGi interactive commands locally


1) Go to menu "Run", then "Run Configurations..."
2) Select _JBehave OSGi - Interactive run example - local console_.


2) After Equinox have started you can test JBehave OSGi Services with this command:

    osgi> help -scope jbehave
    
You should see the JBehave-OSGi Interactive help:

    str - Manage registered JBehave's StoryRunner services.
          A short version of storyRunner command.
       scope: jbehave
       options:
          -o, --output   sets the reporting output directory only for one run. [optional]
       parameters:
          String   StoryRunner services actions are:(list - all registered services| details | output | run | stories)
          StoryRunnerService[]   One or more registered StoryRunner services.

    str - Manage registered JBehave's StoryRunner services.
          Without parameter is like as 'str list'
       scope: jbehave

    stf - Manage registered JBehave's InjectableStepsFactory services.
          Without parameter is like as 'stf list'
       scope: jbehave

    stf - Manage registered JBehave's InjectableStepsFactory services.
          A short version of stepsFactory command.
       scope: jbehave
       parameters:
          String   StepsFactory services actions are:(list - all registered services| details)
          InjectableStepsFactoryService[]   One or more registered StepFactory services

    stepsFactory - Manage registered JBehave's InjectableStepsFactory services.
       scope: jbehave
       parameters:
          String   StepsFactory services actions are:(list - all registered services| details)
          InjectableStepsFactoryService[]   One or more registered StepFactory services

    storyRunner - Manage registered JBehave's StoryRunner services.
       scope: jbehave
       options:
          -o, --output   sets the reporting output directory only for one run. [optional]
       parameters:
          String   StoryRunner services actions are:(list - all registered services| details | output | run | stories)
          StoryRunnerService[]   One or more registered StoryRunner services.

	
3) List the StoryRunnerService instances registered:

    osgi> str 
  or
    osgi> str list
	
    
you will see that one StoryRunnerService instance was registered for the bundle org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.equinox.it:

    StoryRunners: 
        1) org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.it.embedder.TraderAnnotatedPathRunnerOsgi <org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.equinox.it>


4) List the InjectableStepsFactoryService instances registered:

    osgi> stf 
  or
    osgi> stf list

you will see that two InjectableStepsFactoryService instances was registered:

    StepsFactories: 
	    1) stepFactoryDef <org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.equinox.it.steps1:1.0.0.qualifier>
	    2) default <org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.equinox.it.steps2:1.0.0.qualifier>

5) Run the StoryRunner service:

    osgi> str run 1 
  or
    osgi> storyrunner run org.jbehave.osgi.examples.trader.it.embedder.TraderAnnotatedPathRunnerOsgi
    
     
